# Automatic_Legal_Judgement_Prediction
“Justice delayed is justice denied” and this delaying of justice is a great bane for the Indian justice system. Every year, illimitable cases remain pending just for the final hearing of judicial verdict. Years pass-by keeping the plaintiff waiting for justice. For years, this is a major issue faced in the Indian judicial system.
With the rapid development of artificial intelligence, automatic judgment of legal cases based on artificial intelligence has become an important research issue. On the one hand, automatic judgment of legal cases can greatly reduce the workload of lawyers and judges. On the other hand, it is available for other participator in the cases, who are not professional in the law. There are some challenges in automatic legal judgment.
The materials of criminal cases not only contain lots of information such as time, place, parties, and description, but also are often quite long. It is difficult for machines to handle long distance dependency, and pay attention on most important information. “Justice delayed is justice denied” and this delaying of justice is a great bane for the Indian justice system. Every year, illimitable cases remain pending just for the final hearing of judicial verdict. Years pass-by keeping the plaintiff waiting for justice. For years, this is a major issue faced in the Indian judicial system. In this project, we are attempting to condense the problem by decreasing the number of cases before it reaches the Court. This is done by extending help to the legal professionals to predict a case output from previous records. This project focuses on cases related to ‘Dowry Death’ i.e. IPC section 498A and 304B. It aims to deliver justice by predicting judicial argument-based analysis using the Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm to find its accuracy.
